Add docs for the View Transitions Module Level 1 (#24627)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/viewtransition/finished/index.md

---
title: ViewTransition.finished
slug: Web/API/ViewTransition/finished
page-type: web-api-instance-property
status: experimental
browser-compat: api.ViewTransition.finished
---

{{APIRef("View Transitions API")}}{{SeeCompatTable}}

The **`finished`** read-only property of the

> {{domxref("ViewTransition")}} interface returns a {{jsxref("Promise")}} that fulfills once the transition animation is finished, and the new page view is visible and interactive to the user.

Reviewer: I might be hitting up against MDN conventions here, but I think "returns" here raises more questions that it answers.

I know that it's literally a getter, due to how WebIDL works, but I think it raises questions around timing and equality. As in, when is the promise created? Does it return the same promise each time?

I think you avoid these questions by saying that it's a read-only property, and it's a promise.

Same comment for the other pages documenting the promises.

Author: This is a good point. I've updated "returns a promise" to "is a promise" in each case. Des that work better?

> `finished` only rejects if {{domxref("Document.startViewTransition()")}}'s callback returns a rejected promise, which indicates that the new state of the page wasn't created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`finished` only rejects if the callback passed to {{domxref("Document.startViewTransition()")}} throws or returns a promise that rejects, which indicates that the new state of the page wasn't created.
```

Author: updated

If a transition animation fails to start, or is skipped during the animation using {{domxref("ViewTransition.skipTransition()")}}, the end state is still reached therefore `finished` still fulfills.

## Value

A promise.

## Examples

> ### different transitions for different navigations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Different transitions for different navigations
```

Or is this MDN style?

Author: Heh, no ;-)

Updated.

> Sometimes certain navigations will require specifically tailored transitions, for example a 'back' navigation may want a different transition to a 'forward' navigation. The best way to handle such cases is to set a class name on the `<html>` element, handle the transition — applying the correct animation using a tailored selector — and then remove the class name once the tr5ansition is finished.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes certain navigations will require specifically tailored transitions, for example a 'back' navigation may want a different transition to a 'forward' navigation. The best way to handle such cases is to set a class name on the `<html>` element, handle the transition — applying the correct animation using a tailored selector — and then remove the class name once the transition is finished.
```

This almost certainly isn't MDN style 😄

Author: No, but "tr5ansition" is a great name for a b-rate boyband, which I'm obviously about to go off and start.

Ummm, updated.

Reviewer: Check out the new a5lbum, it's OUT NOW

```js
async function handleTransition() {

>   if (isBackNavigation) {

Reviewer: Might be worth saying this isn't a built-in feature. You'd have to set this yourself.

Author: Good idea; I've added a note.
